You know
in this blog we are going to continue our discussion about administering distances.
So let's start with some questions.
When Radu one pings the loop back.
So $4.4 4.4 which way will the traffic go.
Show i.p.
Shows us the writing table.
So you answer the question Which way will traffic go when sent from a one to 4.
Will it go viral too.
Or will it go by a router 3.
Which way will it go and why.
So let's do a trace to triple four.
So the traffic is going via router too.
So the next top is tendered one to one to two and then it goes to tender one two or three day or two.
Why.
So he has the writing table we've got these entries for network $4.4 4.4.
Both a GOP and OSPF ront are shown on the writing table.
Notice the Edmon distance of your GOP and OSPF your GOP has a lower administrative distance than OSPF
does.
So typically your job is more believable than OSPF.
See my other videos for examples demonstrating that.
However and this is the important piece.
Notice the mosque used on the GOP route compared to the mosque used on the OSPF route from Iran his
point of view.
These are two separate networks.
We've got a $4.4 4.0 network and we've got a Ford Ford at 4.4 slash 32 network.
So slushed 24 and slash 32 network.
They are separate networks.
The Rodda will choose the route with the best match.
In other words the longest match 32 bits is a longer match or better match than 24 bits.
So this route takes precedence over this route for traffic sent to the loop back of rota for the administer
of distances are only used when we are talking about the same route.
In other words the mosques are the same here because they are different mosques.
Longest match is used as an example if I removed from the router and then use the command show IP route.
Notice the GOP route is the route in the writing table and if we traced to quadruple for it would go
via router three.
So lets add back who is P.F. and I'll just enable OSPF on all interfaces and areas zero show IP ROFFT
SPF loading school has to be done but once that's done I noticed the rapture is available in the writing
table and we are going via.
In this example Serrato one is learning about this network from ratatouille through SPF wrote of one
is learning about this network through your job.
From Rodda 3.
But because of the longest match the traffic is sent via Rodda to.
So let's see why the summary ROFFT was adage so show running to face gigabit.
0 1 I added this summary route to route of 4.
To summarize the network advertised through your GOP Let's go to that interface and remove it.
Now show IP brought on Rato one what you'll notice is the OSPF rot has been removed.
The new route has only been available in the writing table for 5 seconds.
Previously we had this rumped in the writing table for about forty nine seconds.
So a new route has been added to through the GOP because it's the same route as the ROFFT advertised
by OSPF.
In other words this is the same as this exact match.
The GOP rot takes precedence because it has a lower administer of distance.
So now when we trace to that loopback it's going via rodded three.
So be careful with Edmon distances in the ministry of distance is only used as a tiebreaker when multiple
routing protocols are trying to put the same route into the writing table.
If they are different Roths in other words they different mosques both routes will end up in the running
table.
That completes this Flug if you enjoyed the video please like it and please subscribe to our YouTube
channel.
I wish you all the very best.